---
layout: poddocs
title: ComplexMatrix2D
---

h3. Addition VTABLEs</h2>

h4. add(ComplexMatrix2D)

Add two matrices together, element-by-element.

h4. add(Complex)

Add a complex value to each element of the matrix

h4. add(DEFAULT)

Take the number representation of the argument PMC and add it to every element
in the matrix.

h4. add_float

Add the float value to every element in the matrix.

h4. add_int

Add the integer value to every element in the matrix.

h3. In-Place Addition VTABLEs</h2>

h4. i_add(ComplexMatrix2D)

Add a matrix into SELF

h4. i_add(Complex)

Add a Complex value to every element of SELF

h4. i_add(DEFAULT)

Add the numeric value of the given PMC to every element of SELF

h4. i_add_int

Add the integer value to every element of SELF

h4. i_add_float

Add the floating-point value to every element of SELF

h3. Subtraction VTABLEs</h2>

h4. subtract(ComplexMatrix2D)

Perform the matrix operation

@C = SELF - A@

h4. subtract(Complex)

Subtract a complex value from each element of the matrix

h4. subtract(DEFAULT)

Take the number representation of the argument PMC and subtract it from every
element in the matrix.

h4. subtract_float

Subtract the float value from every element in the matrix.

h4. subtract_int

Subtract the integer value from every element in the matrix.

h3. In-Place Subtraction VTABLEs</h2>

h4. i_subtract(ComplexMatrix2D)

Perform the matrix operation

@SELF = SELF - A@

h4. i_subtract(Complex)

Substract a complex value from each element of the matrix

h4. i_subtract(DEFAULT)

Subtract the numeric value of the PMC from the real part of each element in the
matrix

h4. i_subtract_int

Subtract the integer value from the real part of each element in the matrix

h4. i_subtract_float

Subtract the floating point value from the real part of each element in the
matrix

h3. Multiplication VTABLEs</h2>

h4. multiply(ComplexMatrix2D)

Perform the matrix operation

@C = SELF × A@

h4. multiply(Complex)

Multiply each element in the matrix by the complex value

h4. multiply(DEFAULT)

Multiply each element in the matrix by the numeric value of the PMC

h4. multiply_int

Multiply each element in the matrix by the integer

h4. multiply_float

Multiply each element in the matrix by the floating point number

h3. In-Place Multiplication VTABLEs</h2>

h4. i_multiply(ComplexMatrix2D)

Perform the matrix operation

@SELF = SELF × A@

h4. i_multiply(Complex)

Multiply every element in SELF by the complex value

h4. i_multiply(DEFAULT)

Multiply every element in SELF by the numeric value of the PMC

h4. i_multiply_int

Multiply every element in SELF by the integer

h4. i_multiply_float

Multiply every element in SELF by the floating point number
