---
layout: poddocs
title: NumMatrix2D Arithmetic
---

h3. Addition VTABLEs</h2>

h4. add(NumMatrix2D)

Add two matrices together, element-by-element.

h4. add(DEFAULT)

Take the number representation of the argument PMC and add it to every element
in the matrix.

h4. add_float

Add the float value to every element in the matrix.

h4. add_int

Add the integer value to every element in the matrix.

h3. In-Place Addition VTABLEs</h2>

h4. i_add(NumMatrix2D)

Add a matrix into SELF

h4. i_add(DEFAULT)

Add the numeric value of the given PMC to every element of SELF

h4. i_add_int

Add the integer value to every element of SELF

h4. i_add_float

Add the floating-point value to every element of SELF

h3. Subtraction VTABLEs</h2>

h4. subtract(NumMatrix2D)

Perform the matrix operation

@C = SELF - A@

h4. subtract(DEFAULT)

Take the number representation of the argument PMC and subtract it from every
element in the matrix.

h4. subtract_float

Subtract the float value from every element in the matrix.

h4. subtract_int

Subtract the integer value from every element in the matrix.

h3. In-Place Subtraction VTABLEs</h2>

h4. i_subtract(NumMatrix2D)

Perform the matrix operation

@SELF = SELF - A@

h4. i_subtract(DEFAULT)

Subtract the numeric value of the PMC from the real part of each element in the
matrix

h4. i_subtract_int

Subtract the integer value from the real part of each element in the matrix

h4. i_subtract_float

Subtract the floating point value from the real part of each element in the
matrix

h3. Multiplication VTABLEs</h2>

h4. multiply(NumMatrix2D)

Perform the matrix operation

@C = SELF × A@

h4. multiply(DEFAULT)

Multiply each element in the matrix by the numeric value of the PMC

h4. multiply_int

Multiply each element in the matrix by the integer

h4. multiply_float

Multiply each element in the matrix by the floating point number

h3. In-Place Multiplication VTABLEs</h2>

h4. i_multiply(NumMatrix2D)

Perform the matrix operation

@SELF = SELF × A@

h4. i_multiply(DEFAULT)

Multiply every element in SELF by the numeric value of the PMC

h4. i_multiply_int

Multiply every element in SELF by the integer

h4. i_multiply_float

Multiply every element in SELF by the floating point number
