---
layout: poddocs
title: NumMatrix2D Standard VTABLEs
---

h3. System VTABLEs

h4. init

Initialize the new PMC

h4. destroy

Destroy the PMC and free all associated memory

h3. Keyed lookup VTABLEs

In each of these cases, the specified Key PMC must have exactly two elements
to specify a location in the matrix. Attempting to retrieve a value outside the
boundaries of the matrix will throw an OUT_OF_BOUNDS exception.

h4. get_number_keyed

Get a floating point value at the location specified by the key.

h4. get_integer_keyed

Get an integer value at the location specified by the key. This value is the
truncated integer representation of the floating point value at that location.

h4. get_string_keyed

Get the string representation of the value at the specified location.

h4. get_pmc_keyed

Get a Float PMC for the value at the specified location.

h3. Integer-Keyed Lookup VTABLEs

These VTABLEs treat the matrix, which is a contiguous region in memory, as a
linear array of values. The matrix data is stored by rows. These routines are
used for low-level access. Attempting to access a value
outside the bounds of the matrix will throw an OUT_OF_BOUNDS exception.

h4. get_number_keyed_int

Get the number at the specified location.

h4. get_integer_keyed_int

Get an integer from the value at the specified location.

h4. get_string_keyed_int

Get the string representation of the floating point value at the specified
location.

h4. get_pmc_keyed_int

Get a Float PMC from the value at the specified location.

h3. Keyed Setter VTABLES

These VTABLEs insert new values into the matrix at a point specified by the
Key PMC. The Key PMC must have exactly two elements. If the matrix is not large
enough to accomodate the specified location, it will be grown with zero-padding
so that it is at least large enough to hold the specified point and all existing
data.

h4. set_pmc_keyed

Set the value at the specified location to be the floating point value of the
PMC.

h4. set_number_keyed

Set the value at the specified location.

h4. set_string_keyed

Set the value at the specified location to the value represented by the string.
The string is converted to a floating point value using normal parsing rules.

h4. set_integer_keyed

Set the value at the specified location to the given integer.

h3. Integer-Keyed Setter VTABLEs

These VTABLEs treat the matrix as a linear array in memory and allow fast
lookup based on the integer offset of values in the array. These are low-level
routines and are not intended for general use.
Unlike the PMC-keyed VTABLEs, these routines will not automatically grow the
matrix if an index is provided which is outside the boundaries of the matrix.
In that case, an OUT_OF_BOUNDS exception will be thrown.

h4. set_pmc_keyed_int

Set the value at the specifed location as the floating-point value of the PMC.

h4. set_number_keyed_int

Set the value at the specified location.

h4. set_integer_keyed_int

Set the value at the specified location.

h4. set_string_keyed_int

Parse the string to obtain a floating point value, and set that at the specified
location.

h3. Miscellaneous VTABLEs

h4. get_string

Get a string representation of the matrix, suitable for printing to the console

h4. get_attr_string

Get a named attribute. The name can be one of "rows", "cols", or "size".

h4. clone

Clone the matrix

h4. is_equal

Determine if two matrices are equal in size and composition.

h3. Serialization/Deserialization VTABLEs

h4. freeze

Freeze the PMC for serialization to a string suitable for long-term storage in
a file.

h4. thaw

Thaw a serialized PMC
